README.md, before:

# Learning JavaScript

This repository contains a set of Code Kata I've used to practice and learn JavaScript.

## How to run the examples

1. Fetch all dependencies

```
npm install
```

2. Run all the tests

```
npm test
```

## Nice to explore later

- Bank Kata https://github.com/sandromancuso/Bank-kata
- Explore code coverage tools for JavaScript
- How to test the front-end code (interaction with the DOM, etc ...)?
- Setup Vim for JavaScript
- Setup Emacs for JavaScript

## Resources I found about JavaScript

In JavaScript there is [NO concept of **Class**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes).

Everything is an [**Object**](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/this%20%26%20object%20prototypes/ch6.md).

Inheritance between objects is achieved with a mechanism known as [**Prototypal Inheritance**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Inheritance_and_the_prototype_chain).

We can create Objects and then link them together **OLOO** (Objects-Linked-to-Other-Objects).

- [A re-introduction to JavaScript (JS tutorial)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/A_re-introduction_to_JavaScript)
- [Introducing JavaScript objects](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects)
- [Eloquent JavaScript](https://eloquentjavascript.net/)
- [You Don't Know JS](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS)
- [JavaScript Allonge](https://github.com/raganwald/javascript-allonge)
- [Professor Frisby's Mostly Adeguate Guide to Functional Programming](https://github.com/MostlyAdequate/mostly-adequate-guide)
  - [Functional Programming with JavaScript Object Arrays](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/functional-programming-with-javascript-object-arrays)
- [JavaScript For Beginners: the ‘new’ operator](https://codeburst.io/javascript-for-beginners-the-new-operator-cee35beb669e)
- [Export and Import](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/export)
  - [Export Multiple Classes in ES6](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38340500/export-multiple-classes-in-es6-modules)
- [JavaScript Strict Mode](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Strict_mode)
- [Compatibility Matrix Node/ES6](https://node.green/)
- [Compare the differences between ES6 and ES5](http://es6-features.org)
  - ES6 stands for ECMAScript 6 (a.k.a. [ECMAScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ECMAScript) 2015)

### Testing and JavaScript

- [JavaScript Unit Testing for Beginners](https://designmodo.com/test-javascript-unit/)
- Video about [Setting up Unit Testing with Mocha and Chai](https://egghead.io/lessons/javascript-setting-up-unit-testing-with-mocha-and-chai)
- Video about [Unit Testing With Mocha and Chai](https://egghead.io/lessons/javascript-unit-testing-with-mocha-and-chai)
- Ended up with [Chai](https://www.chaijs.com/) as assertions library, and [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/) as test runner
  - Discovered that Chai allows three different assertion styles (Should, Expect and Assert). It's just a matter of style.
  - But there is also another Testing Framework to experiment with, [Jest](https://jestjs.io/).
- [An Overview of JavaScript Testing in 2019](https://medium.com/welldone-software/an-overview-of-javascript-testing-in-2019-264e19514d0a)
- [End to End test with Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/)

### Extensions or Resources about VisualStudioCode

- [Chai Snippets](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=nwhatt.chai-snippets)
- [Recommended Extensions](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/nodejs/extensions#_recommended-extensions)
- [Refactoring JavaScript](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/refactoring)
- [JS Refactor](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=cmstead.jsrefactor)

Commit message:

Document how to run tests with coverage

README.md, after:

# Learning JavaScript

This repository contains a set of Code Kata I've used to practice and learn JavaScript.

## How to run the examples

1. Fetch all dependencies

```
npm install
```

2. Run all the tests

```
npm test
```

3. Run all the tests with coverage reports

```
npm run coverage
```

## Nice to explore later

- Bank Kata https://github.com/sandromancuso/Bank-kata
- Explore code coverage tools for JavaScript
- How to test the front-end code (interaction with the DOM, etc ...)?
- Setup Vim for JavaScript
- Setup Emacs for JavaScript

## Resources I found about JavaScript

In JavaScript there is [NO concept of **Class**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes).

Everything is an [**Object**](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/this%20%26%20object%20prototypes/ch6.md).

Inheritance between objects is achieved with a mechanism known as [**Prototypal Inheritance**](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Inheritance_and_the_prototype_chain).

We can create Objects and then link them together **OLOO** (Objects-Linked-to-Other-Objects).

- [A re-introduction to JavaScript (JS tutorial)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/A_re-introduction_to_JavaScript)
- [Introducing JavaScript objects](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects)
- [Eloquent JavaScript](https://eloquentjavascript.net/)
- [You Don't Know JS](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS)
- [JavaScript Allonge](https://github.com/raganwald/javascript-allonge)
- [Professor Frisby's Mostly Adeguate Guide to Functional Programming](https://github.com/MostlyAdequate/mostly-adequate-guide)
  - [Functional Programming with JavaScript Object Arrays](https://www.telerik.com/blogs/functional-programming-with-javascript-object-arrays)
- [JavaScript For Beginners: the ‘new’ operator](https://codeburst.io/javascript-for-beginners-the-new-operator-cee35beb669e)
- [Export and Import](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/export)
  - [Export Multiple Classes in ES6](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38340500/export-multiple-classes-in-es6-modules)
- [JavaScript Strict Mode](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Strict_mode)
- [Compatibility Matrix Node/ES6](https://node.green/)
- [Compare the differences between ES6 and ES5](http://es6-features.org)
  - ES6 stands for ECMAScript 6 (a.k.a. [ECMAScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ECMAScript) 2015)

### Testing and JavaScript

- [JavaScript Unit Testing for Beginners](https://designmodo.com/test-javascript-unit/)
- Video about [Setting up Unit Testing with Mocha and Chai](https://egghead.io/lessons/javascript-setting-up-unit-testing-with-mocha-and-chai)
- Video about [Unit Testing With Mocha and Chai](https://egghead.io/lessons/javascript-unit-testing-with-mocha-and-chai)
- Ended up with [Chai](https://www.chaijs.com/) as assertions library, and [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/) as test runner
  - Discovered that Chai allows three different assertion styles (Should, Expect and Assert). It's just a matter of style.
  - But there is also another Testing Framework to experiment with, [Jest](https://jestjs.io/).
- [An Overview of JavaScript Testing in 2019](https://medium.com/welldone-software/an-overview-of-javascript-testing-in-2019-264e19514d0a)
- [End to End test with Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/)

### Extensions or Resources about VisualStudioCode

- [Chai Snippets](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=nwhatt.chai-snippets)
- [Recommended Extensions](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/nodejs/extensions#_recommended-extensions)
- [Refactoring JavaScript](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/refactoring)
- [JS Refactor](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=cmstead.jsrefactor)
